# Data Science Portfolio
Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for self learning, and hobby purposes. Mostly executed in the form of Jupyter notebooks. 

Note: Data used in the projects (accessed under data directory) is for demonstration purposes only.

## Instructions for Running Python Notebooks Locally
1.Install dependencies using requirements.txt.

2.Run notebooks as usual by using a jupyter notebook server, Vscode etc.

# Contents
## Machine Learning
* Predicting Boston Housing Prices: A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
Supervised Learning: Finding Donors for CharityML: Testing out several different supervised learning algorithms to build a model that accurately predicts whether an individual makes more than $50,000, to identify likely donors for a fictional non-profit organisation.
Unsupervised Learning: Creating Customer Segments: Analyzing a dataset containing data on various customers' annual spending amounts (reported in monetary units) of diverse product categories for discovering internal structure, patterns and knowledge.
Reinforcement Learning: Training a Smartcab to Drive: Creating an optimized Q-Learning driving agent that will navigate a Smartcab through its environment towards a goal.
Deep Learning: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs: Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.
Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame

Natural Language Processing
Disaster Message Classifier: A multilabel classification model to predict the categories of a disaster message. Includes an ETL pipeline for data processing, a ML pipeline to train the model, and a web app, with visualizations, where the model can be used to classify messages. Tools: NLTK, Scikit-learn, XGBoost, Flask, Plotly

3-way Sentiment Analysis for Tweets: 3-way polarity (positive, negative, neutral) classification system for tweets, without using NLTK's sentiment analysis engine.

Cross language Information Retrieval: Cross language information retrieval system (CLIR) which, given a query in German, searches text documents written in English.

Tools: NLTK, scikit

Data Analysis and Visualisation
Python
Scalable Walkability Analysis of Melbourne: Analysis of walkability of suburbs in Melbourne, Victoria and its implications.
Titanic Dataset - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations.
Stock Market Analysis for Tech Stocks: Analysis of technology stocks including change in price over time, daily returns, and stock behaviour prediction.
2016 US General Election Poll Data Analysis: Very simple analysis of 2016 US General Election Poll data.
911 Calls - Exploratory Analysis: Exploratory Data Analysis of the 911 calls dataset hosted on Kaggle. Demonstrates extraction of useful features from different variables.
Tools: Pandas, Folium, Seaborn and Matplotlib
